[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Welcome back, everyone.
I'm so glad that you
decided to join us again
for another episode of "The
Quest for the Cure Continues."
If you tuned in last
night, and I hope you did,
you learned a lot about
diagnostics for cancer,
which ones are good and
which ones aren't so good,
and you began to learn about
natural treatments for cancer.
If you enjoyed that,
then you're really
going to enjoy
tonight's episode,
because it's totally dedicated
to natural treatments
for cancer.
The first interview is with
Dr. Nicholas Gonzalez. .
He's a medical doctor.
He's got an office
in New York City
and he specializes in pancreatic
enzymes and detoxification,
as well as a structured
diet to treat cancer.
He's had tremendous success
with many types of cancer
that are considered
to be untreatable
with conventional oncology,
for instance pancreatic cancer.
If you're diagnosed
with pancreatic cancer,
it's the equivalent
of a death sentence
if you go with
conventional treatments.
They don't even claim
to have a treatment
for pancreatic cancer.
Almost no one lives
past five years.
Well, Dr. Gonzalez
shared with me
a story of one of
his patients that's
32 years out from diagnosis.
She was diagnosed 32 years
ago with pancreatic cancer
and she's still alive.
She was given the gift of
life because of Dr. Gonzalez's
treatment.
I only wish that maybe I had
known about this treatment
back when my father was
diagnosed in 1996 because I
would have loved to have had
him with me these last 18 years.
Fortunately for this lady,
she has been with her family
for the last 32 years and
they've been able to enjoy her.
It's just so amazing to me these
natural treatments for cancer.
They really work and people
are alive because of them.
It's an encouraging
story and this
is going to be an encouraging
episode because you're
going to see that there is
hope and that cancer doesn't
have to be a death sentence.
I hope you enjoy the show.
>>Dr. Gonzalez, talk about the
protocol that you're using.
If you could, go back and
kind of give a few details
about what protocol
Dr. Kelly was using
and then how you've adopted
that into your practice now.
What are you using?
>> Kelly's program and our
program have three basic
components.
In our therapy today,
25, 27 years later, it's
really a derivation of Kelly.
We follow his model
pretty closely.
It involves three
basic components,
individualized diet,
individualized supplement
programs with for cancer
patients large doses
of pancreatic enzymes and
detoxification routines
like coffee enemas.
Now, unlike a lot of
alternative practitioners
who use one diet
for everybody, like
Atkins thought everyone
should be on a meat diet;
the Gerson people think
everyone should be vegetarian.
Kelly realized early
on different people
need different diets
and some people do well
with a plant-based
diet, other patients
need fatty red meat two
or three times a day.
He had a 10 basic dies
and 94 variations.
And investigative journalist
that I was at heart
when I first met him,
I challenged him.
He showed me on his
computer the 10 basic diets
and 94 variations.
And even then, he would
individualize the diet.
So he doesn't have,
he didn't have,
and we don't have one diet.
We follow that traditionally,
we have 10 diets and dozens
of variations.
Secondly, large doses of
nutritional supplements--
vitamins, minerals,
trace elements,
glandular extracts from animals
like liver, thymus, and lung,
pancreas, heart.
These glandular products are
made for us in New Zealand.
Now, we don't believe the
vitamins and minerals,
trace elements, and
glandular products
are going to cure
or reverse cancer.
What they do provide
is nutritional support.
We're doing two
things, we're trying
to attack the cancer directly
but we're also trying
to rebuild the ravaged body.
A lot of the patients
that came to Kelly
and a lot of the
patients we see not only
have advanced cancer,
which just wrecks the body,
but also been treated with
aggressive chemo, radiation,
all kinds of combinations
that also ravage the body.
So we're trying to
rebuild the body
and also attack the cancer.
And you can attack the cancer
better if you rebuild the body.
So the vitamins,
minerals, trace elements,
glandular products help
restore the normal equilibrium
and homeostasis of the body.
And even then, the
supplement programs
are very individualized.
Kelly did and we
do individualize
all these supplement programs
so no two patients are
on exactly the same protocol.
Now, some of them, of
course, are similar.
Now, in addition to the
vitamins, minerals, trace
elements, et cetera designed
specifically for each patient,
we use for cancer patients large
doses of pancreatic enzymes.
Now, this was Kelly's
great innovation
in a tradition we
follow, of course.
Now, pancreatic
enzymes have been
known since the 1850s
and 1860s, and they're
known as the digestive enzymes.
They help us break
down proteins, fats,
and carbohydrates.
In addition, Dr. John Beard
was the great professor
at the University of
Edinburgh, English
by birth, Scottish
by profession.
He taught at Edinburgh
all his professional life.
He was a very brilliant
embryologist, got his doctorate
in 1884 from the University
of Freiburg in Germany.
And he was one of the
great embryologists.
He was a working embryologist
still quoted today
in the literature.
But his work in embryology
led him on a side tangent
into pancreatic
enzymes and cancer.
He was not trained as
a cancer researcher,
but he was a brilliant man
like a lot of brilliant men,
like Linus Pauling,
they become experts
and a lot of different fields.
And in 1902, he wrote
the first paper claiming
pancreatic enzymes, in addition
to the digestive capability,
which had been well
documented by that point,
they're the body's main
defense against cancer
and would be useful
as a cancer treatment.
And brilliant man that he
was, he did animal studies.
We think of 110 years ago as
a primitive time in science
where scientists worked out
of caves with the candles.
Well, actually, it was
very sophisticated.
By 1902, pathologists-- and
Sloan-Kettering already existed
by that point--
brilliant pathologists
in the US and Europe
had already evaluated
and diagnosed and defined
100 different types of cancer.
They knew what cancer was, they
knew what it looked like, they
knew how it behaved, they knew
how to examine it and biopsy it
under the microscope.
So Beard took an animal model,
which they had at that time
for cancer, and
used its enzymes--
it was the first study
of enzymes in history--
and got 100% regression
of cancer in the animals
that he treated, whereas
the control group
died very quickly.
He was not a physician,
he was an SCD,
he had a doctorate degree so he
wasn't able to treat patients
directly.
But physicians working under
him began using enzymes.
The first case was 1905, a
case of head and neck cancer.
The person who administered
it, Dr. Clarence Rice,
had an office about five
blocks from this office
where we're sitting now.
We're right on Madison Avenue.
So it's kind of a historic
place to be in terms of enzymes.
And the tumor
completely regressed
and it was published in
the conventional medical
literature.
I've collected dozens of
articles in the peer-reviewed
conventional literature from
the period 1905 to 1911 where
physicians under Beard's
guidance treated advanced
cancer--
colon cancer, rectal
cancer, breast cancer,
endometrial cancer,
lung cancer--
successfully with the enzymes.
He wrote a book in 1911 on
the enzyme treatment of cancer
where he actually had sequential
photographs of patients
with head and neck cancer where
the tumors actually disappeared
and the skin heals
normally 100 years ago,
more than 100 years ago.
But the work then,
as it is today,
was considered
too controversial.
There was another
footnote which I often
talk about in my lectures.
At the same time Beard was
showing that enzymes reverse
cancer, Madamee Curie,
the great French-- well,
she was Polish by birth, but she
was working at the University
of Paris--
she was investigating radiation.
And radiation x-rays had
been discovered in 1895.
By 1900, they were
used diagnostically
and they were miraculous.
You do an x-ray and you can
see the inside of the chest
and see the lungs.
By 1905, Madamee
Curie was saying
that radiation would be a
simple, easy, and non-toxic way
of treating all cancer.
And she had two
Nobel Prizes already,
one of the few people--
Linus Pauling also had two--
who had ever won
one, let alone two.
And she was well-loved
by the media.
She was the first
great media star.
She knew how to
use the media, she
knew how to hold
press conferences.
And she announced radiation
as the cure to cancer
to the media.
Beard was this nerdy
ivory tower scientist
who thought the media
was a bunch of morons,
had no use for them,
no use for his critics.
He wasn't maybe the
most diplomatic person.
Madame Curie knew how
to nurture the media.
So all over the world, Madame
Curie the great beloved--
she was the first woman to get
a PhD in theoretical physics
at the University
of Paris so she
had this extraordinary
history and movies
have been made about her.
And the press loved her.
Who cared about Dr. Beard
and pancreatic enzymes?
Well, nobody, apparently.
So his book went unheeded.
Radiation came into the
forefront of cancer treatment.
Of course, Madame Curie was
completely wrong on all counts.
It isn't nontoxic.
In fact, she herself died as a
result of radiation exposure.
She died of aplastic
anemia caused by radiation.
Most tumors that regress come
back very quickly more deadly.
And only a few cancers
actually responded to it,
so radiation was not the
single easy nontoxic way
of treating all cancer.
She was wrong.
But by that point, by the
time scientists realized it,
hundreds of them died.
Hundreds of scientists
involved with radiation
died because of their cavalier
exposure to radiation thinking,
it's invisible so it's safe.
To answer your
original question,
the three components,
individualized diet,
individualized
supplements, large doses
of pancreatic enzymes.
The third component
is detoxification,
which is often the component
of the therapy that
elicits the most
grins and mockery
from conventional doctors.
But it's really very simple.
When Kelly was
treating himself, he
was taking the
pancreatic enzymes
and tumors were breaking down.
And that's when he got
really sick, almost
life-threateningly sick.
First he thought the enzymes
weren't working anymore,
but then he realized the
tumors were shrinking
and I'm getting sick.
And then he realized, I'm
reacting to the tumor waste.
And indeed,
conventional oncologists
know today in 2014
that nothing is
more toxic to the human
body than dead cancer.
In fact, chemotherapy, though it
doesn't work for most cancers,
does work for some
like Hodgkin's
and certain leukemias.
And in Hodgkins patients, if
you break a tumor down too fast
with chemo, you'll kill the
patient from the dead tumor.
And they call that
tumor lysis syndrome.
It's recognized
in the textbooks,
all my conventional
textbooks talking about it.
Well, Kelly recognized
that back in 1963
when he was trying to
get over his own cancer.
And he started going into the
literature, as he always did.
He was a great scholar.
He would go into the
literature trying
to find some technique
that would help his liver
and kidneys work better.
The liver and the kidney are
the body's main detoxification
organs.
That's where
environmental chemicals,
our own metabolic
waste, and dead cancer
are processed and neutralize
and prepared for excretion.
He opens up the "Merck
Manual," and lo and behold,
there are coffee enemas.
And the interesting thing or the
sad thing is, the ironic thing,
Kelly was brutalized
in the media
for his use of coffee enemas,
and we get attacked about it
today, too.
But they come right out of
the conventional medical
literature.
He didn't learn about it from
alien space beings wanting
to injecting it into his brain
through some mystic psychic
experience.
He didn't learn about it through
some alternative throwaway
journal. or some story.
He learned it from the
conventional medical textbooks.
The "Merck Manual"
is a compendium
of conventional therapies.
And they were in
the "Merck Manual."
Coffee enemas were
in the "Merck Manual"
right up until the 1970s.
And when I was doing my
investigation of Kelly,
trained investigative
reporter that I was,
I called up the editor
of the "Merck Manual"
then and had a talk with him.
And he said the only
reason they were taken out
is we'd get kind of folksy, and
we had all this high tech stuff
to use.
And he had files on coffee
enemas which he sent me.
And dozens of studies from
the '20s and 1930s and 1940s
from major institutions
where they're
using coffee enemas for
a variety of things--
arthritis, mental illness.
I have a study from the "New
England Journal of Medicine,"
the preeminent medical
journal in the US,
1932 from Harvard
Medical School,
a group of research
psychiatrists
successfully treated what we
today call bipolar illness--
in those days, they called it
manic depressive-- with enemas.
And their hypothesis
was that there
were toxins in the
intestinal tract that
were polluting the
mind and that's
what was causing
the mental illness.
They put these people
on enemas and colonics
and they got them off medication
and out of the hospital.
It was in the "New
England Journal,"
I have a copy, in 1932.
I have a study from Uruguay.
Just because it's
Uruguay doesn't
mean they weren't
serious scientists.
People downplay that
it's not from Boston.
It was a good study.
They had patients
with septic shock.
Septic shock occurs because
gram negative bacteria produce
a polysaccharide
kind of carbohydrate
that's toxic to the human
and people die from that.
The death rate today is still
in the range of 40% to 50%
with septic shock.
In those days, it was like 90%.
Well, these people
in Uruguay in what
we would call an
intensive care unit today
had learned about coffee enemas
from the conventional medical
world, started treating their
patients with coffee enemas,
and had great success
and published it
in a peer-reviewed journal.
We have a translation,
it was originally
published in Spanish.
Almost like 90% reversal
of septic shock.
That should change the way
hospitals treat septic shock
all over the world.
It was ignored
because it was folksy,
it wasn't high tech
even then, 1941-42.
So we have dozens of articles--
Kelly collected them,
dozens of articles
from the mainstream
peer-reviewed
medical literature discussing
the use of enemas, coffee
enemas, other types of colonics,
and the successful treatment
of all kinds of illnesses.
So he incorporated them into
his practice and it helped.
And he added other things
like liver flushes and colon
cleanses and juice fasts
and skin brushing, which
is an all naturopathic
physicians
technique to get the
lymphatics to work better;
kidney flushes; all
kinds of techniques
that we still use today.
I went through over
10,000 of Kelly's records,
interviewed over
1,000 of his patients,
evaluated 455 of his
advanced cancer patients
who had done well, evaluated
50 at great length representing
26 different types of cancer.
Some of these
patients we actually
saw in our own immunology
clinic with Dr. Good--
I wish I had a film of this--
examining these Kelly
patients, writing notes
in the official hospital
records with his white coat
and stethoscope.
We put it together
in monograph form.
I did the writing, I did the
research, and he was my mentor.
So I evaluated 50 patients with
26 different types of cancer,
all poor prognosis or
terminal or advanced,
who enjoyed extraordinary
responses that
could only be attributed to Dr.
Kelly's nutritional program.
Put this together in monograph
form in 1986, finished
my immunology fellowship.
Now, I have Dr. Good as my
mentor, the most published
author in the
history of medicine,
50 books to his credit.
He was either editor or
co-writer of 50 books,
over 2,00 papers.
Couldn't get it published.
The general response
were one of two.
First, a lot of the
editors didn't believe it.
In fact, I have some
letters in my office
from editors who
warned Dr. Good this
had to be a scam,
fraudulent, and I
had conned him or
something, even
though we saw the
patients in our own clinic
and Dr. Good knew
they were real.
The other thing is editors
would say, this is real,
but if it's real it's the
most extraordinary thing
in medicine, but
it's also the most
controversial in
nutritional prostate cancer.
So this is 1986, where to
mention nutrition and cancer
in the same sentence was
tantamount to a felony.
And the editors said, this would
be the end of my publishing
career.
The American Cancer Society,
the National Institutes
of Health, the National
Cancer Institute
will make sure that I
can't feed my children.
So they would pass.
I tried for two years,
couldn't get it published,
eventually put it away.
But finally in
2010, we published
it updated, rewritten
with a long introduction
by me updating it to 2010.
Now, at that point Dr. Good
was not at Sloan-Kettering,
I had finished my
immunology fellowship.
We had a long talk,
went out to dinner,
and he said something
very interesting.
I don't have it on tape
so I can't confirm it.
But he said, you know,
some of these cases
are so extraordinary,
like we had
a five-year survivor
of pancreatic cancer
which he'd never seen.
One of his former wives,
he married three times,
had died of pancreatic
cancer within two months.
And he was president
at of Sloan-Kettering,
he couldn't save his own wife.
She died quickly.
He said, you're
showing me these cases.
He said, I don't know
how Kelly's doing this.
I've never seen
anything like this
and I'm president
of Sloan-Kettering.
And he said, people
come from all
over the world for my
advice about cancer.
You know, the whole
Iranian crisis
began because of Dr. Good.
The shah of Iran got
sick so he wanted
the best physician in the
world to come evaluate him.
So he picked Robert Good,
flew Robert Good in the shah's
private jet to Iran.
Dr. Good examined and within--
he was a brilliant clinician,
as well as researcher-- within
10 minutes made the diagnosis,
he says, you've got
gall bladder cancer.
He said, you've got
to come to New York.
So he came to New York
and New York Hospital,
and that's when the
Iranian revolution began.
>> I had no idea.
>> No one knows this at all.
No one knows that the
Iranian revolution
began because of
Robert Good, president
of Sloan-Kettering, my mentor.
Kelly himself had
cancer and when
he was trying to
fight his own battle,
and he was an
orthodontist by training.
>> What type of
cancer did he have?
>> He had pancreatic cancer.
Now, I spoke to his doctor-- so
when I first did my research 30
years ago, he was still alive.
They never biopsied it.
They said he was too unstable.
They didn't want to
bring him to surgery.
And this is before CAT scans.
This was in the early 1960s.
But they did x-rays.
He had tumors in both
lungs, fluid in his lungs,
a tumor in his hip.
In fact, he always
walked with a limp
because the tumor had
eaten through his hip bone.
He had a tumor in
his heart, which
is rare for pancreatic cancer.
It was in his bone.
And they said there was
nothing they could do.
They gave him two
months to live.
And he had four young
kids, all of them adopted.
He had mumps as a teenager and
mumps can make you sterile,
so he couldn't have kids
so he adopted four kids out
of the orphanages.
And he was afraid
if he died, they'd
end up back in the orphanage.
He said, I can't die.
Kelly was a very determined guy.
He also had an IQ
twice of most of us.
He said, I'm not going to die.
So he went through
the literature
and realized the only thing he
could do was change his diet.
Then he learned
about Beard's work
from at that point like 60
years earlier, added an enzyme
and got well.
And then the local doctors--
Kelly was very well known
in the town where he lived.
He lived in Grapevine,
Texas which is suburb--
as you know, you're
a Texas boy--
a suburb of Dallas-Fort Worth.
In those days, it was a
pokey professional suburb.
Now it's like Dallas is
taking over the world.
But it was a pokey
town, Grapevine.
And he was in the country
club and taught Bible study
on Sundays and was in the
church and the school board.
Everyone knew him.
He was in the country club.
And the doctors saw him rise
from the dead like Lazarus.
So they started quietly--
this is 1964-65-- sending
their cancer patients to Kelly.
Because they knew,
they trusted him.
He was the same country
club, same church.
>> So the medical doctors
were sending their patients
to a dentist.
>> That's right.
And they were
sending to a dentist.
Legally, he didn't have
the right to treat cancer,
dentists can't.
But they would send them
and they would get well.
That was the good
news and the bad news.
The good news is word of mouth
network started to spread.
And know someone's cousin in
Houston heard about my cousin
got well, and they
would come to Kelly.
And then it was a
person in New Mexico.
Pretty soon, people were coming
from all over the country
to Kelly's dentist
office outside of Dallas
and getting well.
Well, guess what, the medical
board wasn't too happy about it
because sooner or later,
they heard about it.
Kelly once told me at one
time, 14 government agencies
were investigating him.
And investigative
reporter that I am,
I know people tend
to exaggerate.
I looked through
the data and indeed,
14 government agencies from
the local county attorney
to the state medical board
to the the dental board.
The dental board actually
took away his license
for practicing medicine
without a license.
He didn't care
because he just said
he's doing nutrition, kept
seeing patients anyway.
The state attorneys, the
attorney state attorney
general, federal
attorney, the IRS.
They all colluded like
going after Tea Party groups
together.
They colluded to
try and get Kelly.
Here's a guy giving
cancer patients nutrition.
This isn't like he
committed the Holocaust.
He's just giving patients
with nothing else to do--
you can't treat
them successfully
with any of this
conventional therapy.
He's giving them nutrition.
And lo and behold, the
problem was a lot of them
were getting well,
which started to upset
the medical authorities.
And it's interesting,
too, and these
are stories that
as far as I know
have never been told
before, at one point
he was arrested at gunpoint kind
of like a typical equivalent
of a SWAT team arrested him.
And they always do those
things to try to embarrass you.
So they came at midnight
in front of his kids
in pajamas dragging him away.
Well, there was a very
prominent Washington politician
high up in the
Justice Department,
I mean really high up in
the Justice Department,
who the next day called
the local sheriff and said,
you let Kelly out
or I'm going to have
the entire federal government
investigate every one of you.
You'll be audited on your income
tax for the last 25 years.
And he said, you don't
want to mess with me.
He was let out of jail within
five minutes of that phone
call.
And they never went
after him again.
He continued to practice.
He just had patients
sign a form saying,
I'm not a medical doctor,
I'm doing nutritional,
and they let them alone.
So all these incredible stories.
And I would interview patients
who would confirm all this
and his family.
I knew three of his four kids.
And they didn't
have an easy time
because they were the kids of
this crazy cancer quack doctor.
And "Dallas Morning
News" newspaper
would carried it and
the local radio-- again,
this is pre-internet.
And it was tough.
They would go to school
and be laughed at,
the crazy quack doctor.
So it was tough for them.
>> Wow.
I had no idea why the Iranian
crisis really started.
What an interesting nugget of
information from Dr. Gonzalez.
Let's listen up as he
continues to explain
why pancreatic enzymes are so
effective in treating cancer.
What it, Dr. Gonzalez,
in the pancreatic enzymes
that is so successful
at reversing the cancer?
>> No one's ever had the
financing to do the work.
Now, Beard did animal
studies 100 years ago.
We've done animal studies, too.
We were fortunate
that we've had funding
from two major
international corporations.
People laugh when I say it,
but Proctor & Gamble gave us
millions of dollars to
help perfect the enzyme
and Nestle's.
The chief of research
at Nestle, Pierre Guesry
was the former medical director
of the Pasteur Institute.
Nestle lured him away to
run their research division.
Nestle in those days had a $600
million basic science research
division.
They have a campus in
Switzerland off of Lake Geneva
that rivals the NIH.
It's unbelievable.
I have lectured
there several times.
And Guesry is a real scientist.
He's a physician
by training and was
head of the Pasteur
Institute, one
the most pre-eminent research
institutions in the world.
And he had heard about
my work back in 1992.
It's like, this is pre-internet.
I don't know how
people heard about me.
Actually, I do know so I'm
actually kind of exaggerating.
Pierre was lives in Malta now.
He's retired and has
a sailboat and sails
around the Mediterranean.
He set up a research
group to travel
the world looking for
alternative therapies that
might be useful.
These are genius people.
They don't tend
their prejudices.
They just want to
say, they don't
care if it's moondust or spooky
stuff or radioactive waves.
They don't care as
long as it works.
So they actually set up
a division very quietly,
highly funded.
And they sent a team around the
world from the jungles of New
Guinea to New York to me.
>> A division within Nestle?
>> Within Nestle to look
into alternative therapies.
Unknown, it never
was publicized.
And they traveled the world.
And one day, I
got a phone call--
I'm going off on a
tangent about enzymes
but you can edit this down.
>> No.
This is great stuff.
>> I got a call from the
research director at Nestle.
I said, what the heck does a
research director at Nestle
want to do with me?
And he told me his name, Pierre
Guesry I said, rings a bell.
And this was before
the internet,
so you couldn't Google it.
But I found a way.
Oh, the guy who ran
the Pasteur Institute.
And so I called him back.
And he said, I want to come
to New York and meet with you.
You want to meet with me?
Why?
I don't eat chocolate.
He said, no.
He laughed.
Nothing to do with chocolate.
He explained that
they had been looking
into alternative therapies
and my name kept coming up
and he wanted to meet with me.
So he met with me
and the end result
is Nestle agreed
to fund studies.
They funded our first
clinical study and it was very
successful with peancratic
cancer in humans,
but also animal
studies back in 2002,
2004 that were done at
the University of Nebraska
by Parviz Pour, P-O-U-R,
who's one of the preeminent
researchers in the molecular
biology of pancreatic cancer.
And Dr. Pour developed an animal
model for pancreatic cancer
that they used in our study.
And he used the most
aggressive animal model
at his disposal and Nestle
funded him to do this.
They were going to really
put my enzymes to the test.
And it was extremely successful.
And Pour told me that this is
the first time in his lifetime
that he saw this particular
model respond to anything.
It didn't respond
to chemo, anything.
So he was very impressed.
Published in a peer-reviewed
journal, "Pancreas,"
I think it was in 2004.
We have copies around.
So we know from
animal models they
work, from my first clinical
study that it works.
But we don't know the
molecular biology,
to answer your question.
We don't know how it
actually kills cancer cells.
What we think is the
proteolytic, which
are the protein digesting
pancreatic enzymes like tripsin
and chymotripsin, actually
tear apart the cell membrane.
Cell membranes are lipid,
fatty, but they also
have protein molecules that
are receptors and pores that
allow nutrients to get in and
waste products to get out.
That's how cells survive,
with those protein
pores in the memory.
And these are proteins
like any other protein.
We think the enzymes
chew them up.
Now, they don't
affect normal tissue.
And Beard said in his book
more than 100 years ago
that there's a reason
that cancer cells have
the opposite electrical
charge than normal cells.
Everyone laughed at him at that
time, we now know that's true.
And normal cells repulse
the pancreatic enzymes
in the bloodstream, but
cancer cells attract them.
And the enzymes go
right to the cancer cell
and we believe chew up the
proteins on the cell membrane,
the cell does.
So we think it's that simple.
We haven't had the trillions
of dollars of funding
to substantiate that.
I mean, Pour wanted to do that.
Nestle was willing to fund
more, but the key with Nestle
is I would have had to turn
over my intellectual property.
It would have been
a co-ownership.
They wanted they had their
patent lawyers in the US filing
patents, but it would have been
Nestle and me as co-owners.
The problem with that is
Pierre retires and then
the next person may
think that's all quackery
and then Nestle owns my work
and I can't do anything with it.
So I said, no thank
you, gracious.
We're still friends, Pierre
and I. And he understood why.
>> Mr. Griffin, tell us a
little bit about the role that
pancreatic enzymes might play
in prevention and/or treatment
of cancer.
>> Very important.
Thanks for asking that.
A moment ago, I said
there were two factors,
the extrinsic factor and
the intrinsic factor.
And we've been talking
about the extrinsic factors
so far, the food that
comes in from outside.
But there are
certain things that
are generated within the body
that are very, very important.
And one of those happens to be
the pancreatic enzymes, tripsyn
and chimotripsyn
and other digestive
enzymes that have a special
mission of digesting
meat protein.
Why is that important?
It's a fascinating story.
They had known for a
long time that the--
let me back up a
little bit by saying
one of the questions
that puzzled
scientists for a long time is,
why doesn't the immune system
attack cancer cells?
If you're working
on the assumption
that cancer is something
that's foreign to the body--
which is not our
assumption, of course;
our assumption is that cancer
is natural for the body that's
going awry.
But the orthodox view
if cancer is something
foreign to the body, it's
not supposed to be there,
why doesn't the immune system
attack it and destroy it?
And the answer is that cancer
cells have a protein coating
around them, a protein coding.
And that has a negative
electrostatic charge.
It's amazing the more I learn
about how much electricity
plays a role inside the body.
I used to think it
was all chemistry.
Well, chemistry is
basically electricity.
The little valences, you
see the pluses and minuses
on that charts and so forth.
It's all electricity or
the chemistry doesn't work.
But anyway, this protein
coding around the cancer cells,
one of its unique qualities
has a negative electrostatic
charge.
Well, the immune cells--
the lymphocytes, the
leukocytes, the monocytes,
all these white
blood cells that are
supposed to attack
the foreign invaders--
they have a negative
electrostatic charge also.
Well, everyone knows that common
polarities repel each other.
So the cancer cell
is well protected
against the white blood cell.
And I believe the reason is
because the cancer cell is not
foreign to the body.
It's part of the
natural protections.
Hey, I'm a friend, not a foe.
Even thought I'm out of
whack, I'm still a friend.
So now, if you are
eating foods that
have a lot of meat
protein in them,
you're probably going
to use most, if not all,
of that digestive enzyme
produced by your pancreas
to digest the meat.
That's what it's meant to do.
>> Yeah.
Makes sense.
>> And there's very
little, if anything,
left over to do anything else.
But if your diet is
low in meat protein
and if your pancreas is
normal, functioning OK,
you should have plenty
of digestive enzymes
to take care of
the meat and still
be plenty in the bloodstream.
Now, when these
digestive enzymes
come to the cancer cells,
they say, ah, protein, meat.
And they will actually
digest away that coating.
Now the underlying
cancer cell is exposed
and it has a positive
electrostatic charge.
And now here come the
white blood cells.
And they do literally to
attack the cancer cell
once it's been stripped of
its electrical protection.
So all of the physicians
that I have ever
met that are following
this alternative therapy,
this concept, one of
the things they focus on
is making sure that the
patient changes the diet
to either eliminate
meat altogether or make
sure it's very, very low.
And a lot of people
don't understand that.
They think, what is he, just
some kind of a vegetarian nut?
Do we have to eat vegetables,
too, to go along with it?
Well, yeah, you do.
If you want to have the
full mechanism working
in your favor, you
definitely-- at least
if you have clinical
cancer, you definitely
want to make sure that whatever
your pancreas is producing
in the way of these digestive
enzymes is completely available
to do that job.
>> And that would explain
then why many physicians,
part of their protocol
to treat cancer,
add pancreatic enzymes
to the protocol.
>> That's exactly it.
So tripsin and
chymotripsin, they
tear apart the cell membrane.
They digest the protein
coating around the cancer cell,
making it visible to
your immune system.
Fascinating info.
Let's hear from
G. Edward Griffin
as he explains about
a substance that
is selectively toxic
to cancer cells
but doesn't harm
any normal cells.
>> There is a
substance in nature--
again, can't be
patented, it's in nature.
It's in about 1,400
edible plants.
It's ubiquitous, it's
everywhere except on the plates
of modern man because it
has a bitter taste to it.
And if you have a choice,
if you're not just
living in a primitive
society and you
can choose what foods
you want, you normally
don't choose bitter.
>> We like sweet.
And that is the beginning
of the problem, or at least
the answer to the question,
why does modern man have cancer
and primitive man does not?
There's a part of the answer.
Well, anyway, this substance
is called amygdalin.
It's well-known.
It's been in the pharmacopeia
for almost 100 years.
I think it was first isolated
and described in Germany.
And it's been used for medicinal
purposes for a long, long time.
Amygdalin is a substance
that is bitter.
And it's found in grasses
and in seeds primarily.
And they have found
that in those cultures,
those places in the world
where the native diet is
rich in amygdalin
foods, the cancer rate
is very low, if not zero.
And you compare that
diet to the diet
of the people in
modern societies
where cancer rates
are high and you'll
find there's practically
no amygdalin at all.
It's just a complete
an eye-opener.
And what are those cultures?
Well, the Hunzas I think
you mentioned a moment ago
are probably the best
known little kingdom up
in northwest Pakistan.
And it's a very idyllic
place, I'm told.
The story a
Shangri-La, they say,
was actually written based
upon Hunza as the model.
Everybody knows a
story of Shangri-La.
Well, Hunza is pretty
much like that.
It's very remote, you risk
your life getting into it.
And I always thought I wanted
to go visit Hunza after I read
about it until I
saw some photographs
of these deep ravines that
you have to walk across
on a rope bridge and it's about
a mile and a half straight
down.
You go along the
cliffs like this.
No, I think I'll
just read about it.
But anyway, that is
really the way it was.
I guess they have a road in now.
The people in Hunza
never had cancer.
But afterwards, when
they come out of Hunza,
and they go into other
countries and they
start eating the same foods
that those people eat,
they come down with
cancer like everyone else.
In Hunza, at least
in the beginning
when all this research
was done, there
was no such thing as money.
It's a kind of a
primitive society
and a man's wealth was measured
by the number of apricot trees
he owns.
And people eat
apricots seeds there,
a little sweeter than the ones
in California, but still loaded
with amygdalin.
And they eat them like candy.
It was like a delicacy there.
So they're just one example.
There are other cultures,
the Vilcabamba, the Navajo
and the Hopi Indians,
the aboriginal Eskimos.
All of those cultures had
zero or very low cancer rates.
And if you look at the
native diet, in every case
their foods are at least
200 times, if not more,
rich in amygdalin
than anything that you
would find in a
major city or even
in the countryside
in our Western world.
So that's a clue.
And so then the next
question is, well,
what is this thing, amygdalin,
and how does it work?
It's very simple.
Amygdalin is a molecule
that has four components
in it locked together.
There are two components
of sugar or glucose,
there's one component
of cyanide--
and there's the word
that scares people,
and we'll come back
to that in a minute--
and one component
of benzaldehyde.
Now, people say, wow, cyanide.
You want to take cyanide
and treat cancer?
>> Right.
>> And the answer is, yes.
Of course.
Well, doesn't cyanide kill you?
Well, yes if it's real
pure gaseous cyanide.
If it's pure cyanide, yes.
But when it's in a molecule
with other components,
it's not cyanide;
it's something else.
It's like vitamin B-12,
it's called cyanocobalamin.
We would be dead if we didn't
have cyanide in our bodies
in that form.
In cyanocobalamin it's not
cyanide, it's cyanocobalamin.
It's a molecule that's made
up of one or the components
being cyanide.
Well, there's a big difference
between free cyanide,
which is gaseous, or when it's
locked with other components
or elements.
And so that's the
key to understanding
why we're not worried
about cyanide being
part of the molecule.
The real question
is, well, what is it
that would release the cyanide?
And by the way, the
benzaldehyde is toxic, too.
Most people don't know that.
And the two together are even
more toxic than two times each.
So if you released a
cyanide and a benzaldehyde,
you've released a
very toxic component.
So you have to be very
careful about that.
And then the next question
is, well, what releases it?
And I'm glad you're
sitting down for this.
Of course, I think
you already know this.
But I hope everybody
watching this is sitting down
because the thing that
releases the cyanide
and the benzaldehyde is an
enzyme called beta-glucosidase.
Beta-glucosidase.
It's an enzyme.
And where is that found?
In cancer cells, and
only in cancer cells.
>> Wow.
>> It's a beautiful mechanism of
nature that could not have been
accidental.
It's the body's natural method
of controlling overgrowth,
over-healing.
Because once you get one cell
that is an over-healing cell,
it contains this unlocking
enzyme, as we call it.
And the unlocking enzyme comes
in contact with amygdalin
if you are eating food
with amygdalin in it--
>> That's the big if.
Yeah.
If you're not eating food
with amygdalin in it,
then it doesn't work.
But if you are
eating-- it doesn't
take much, just a little bit.
And if you are eating it and
it's in your bloodstream,
it comes in contact with
that overgrowth cell.
The overgrowth cell releases
the toxic components
and commits Hari Kari.
And you don't even know
that anything happened.
You come to the
conclusion that everybody
has cancer all the time,
but it's continually
being controlled and eliminated
by a natural mechanism
of the body.
It's nothing to worry about.
It's part of nature, it's
part of the healing process.
The only time you
need to worry about it
is that you've messed up
your body in some way,
then you're not
giving it the fuel.
You haven't given
it the components
it needs to do its job.
And so that's the big difference
between the alternative view
of cancer and the
orthodox view of cancer.
>> Talk about the
California report of 1953.
I've read some of your writings
about the California report
and it's a very
interesting topic.
>> It is.
And it's a clear
example of the degree
to which I guess there's
no other word but fraud,
the degree to which fraud--
deliberate,
conscious fraud-- can
be injected into what
we would normally
think is a scientific process.
Early in the days of the
development of Laetrile,
there were stories circulating
that people were getting well.
They're being
treated and they're
coming back from the edge
of the grave and so forth.
And so naturally, the
pharmaceutical industry
wanted to put an end to this.
And so they set up a deal where
they wanted to have it tested.
The idea is, OK, none
of this discussion
about people getting saved,
none of these little stories.
Let's do a scientific test.
Well, everybody was
in favor of that.
Except they insisted
that only those who
were opponents of Laetrile do
the tests and nobody else could
do the tests, you see.
It had to be the
oncologists and the people
on the staff of the
pharmaceutical industry
and so forth.
Well, anyway, way to
make a long story short,
and it is a long story, the
California branch of the AMA,
the California
Medical Association,
was given the task of
doing a test on Laetrile.
And the people who
were in charge of this
were all in the cancer industry.
The two men, if I remember
of the names correctly,
that wrote the analysis
of the report were Drs.
McFarland and Garland, I think.
And McFarland I think
was a surgeon and Garland
I think was a
radiologist, or maybe
it was the other way around.
But it was a surgeon
and a radiologist.
And the other
members of the panel
were all in similar positions.
Most of them were radiologists,
interestingly enough, I think.
So anyway, they all had
kind of a vested interest
in not finding something
that would interfere
with their businesses, you see.
So there was sort
of a bias built in.
Anyway, they did this
very fine scientific study
using mice and so forth.
They spent a lot of money.
And they produced the report
and McFarland and Garland
announced that there was
no evidence whatsoever
that Laetrile had
any effect whatsoever
in the control of cancer.
So that was all
anybody needed to hear.
There was something done by the
California Medical Association
and two fine, upstanding
doctors-- well,
these doctors, just
to give you an idea
of how fine and scientifically
astute they were,
these are the guys
that both of them
said that there was
no connection at all
between cigarette
smoking and lung cancer.
>> Same doctors?
>> Same doctors, yes, before
they got involved in this
report.
They had already
been bought and paid
for by the tobacco
industry, of course.
In fact, I think
it was McFarland
that even made this
fantastic quote, a pack a day
keeps cancer away.
>> I've seen the newspaper ads
that they used to run that had
that exact quote.
That was from him.
>> Yeah.
Incidentally, he died
in bed some years
later in a fire started
by his cigarette.
>> Wow.
>> It burned him up.
I mean, I'm sorry that anybody
died, especially from fire,
but I thought there was
a certain irony there.
>> Poetic justice.
>> Poetic justice or something.
And the other guy died
of cancer of the lung.
They were both heavy smokers.
So anyway, that gives
you a little idea
of the scientific
expertise of these guys.
Well, as far as most
doctors are concerned,
if they see a report from the
California Medical Association
and it's accepted by the
teaching institutions,
there's no question that that
is science, that's authentic.
>> That's gospel truth.
>> That is gospel truth.
>> Well, and it was accepted as
gospel truth for quite a while.
And then we got hold of a
copy of the full report.
I've forgotten how
he did it, but did.
And it was a big, thick report
and all anybody had ever read
was that cover page were
McDonald and Farland--
McFarland and Garland,
I'll get it straight.
Sounds like a comedy
routine, doesn't it?
>> Who's on first?
Yeah.
Anyway, all anybody ever
saw was that little summary
that they wrote.
And it turns out that these guys
never used Laetrile themselves.
They were just sort of
analyzing the laboratory
results of the study and
this is their summary.
Well, when we go back and read
the actual pages of the report,
the summary was a
lie, an absolute lie.
>> Kind of like the "Cliff
Notes" being correct.
>> The "Cliff Notes"
are incorrect, yes.
Nobody ever went
back to look at--
there was plenty of evidence
in the laboratory work
that it did retard
the growth of cancer,
in spite of the
fact that there was
a high question about the
quality of the Laetrile
they were using.
In fact, it was pretty
obvious that they did not
have good quality Laetrile.
It was also obvious they
were using lower dosages
than was being used
in the clinics.
And in spite of
those two handicaps,
the laboratory results were
reported case after case
after case where these mice were
recovering from cancer right
in the body of the report.
And yet, in the summary, there
was absolutely no evidence
of this, et cetera, et cetera.
This was sort of the
flagship of what had been
repeated many times since then.
The Sloan-Kettering report is
pretty much the same thing.
And it's on and on and on.
And once people realized
that not only is there
just ineptitude or bias in
the cancer industry, bias
against natural therapies.
But also deliberate fraud.
Now we're dealing with
a different animal.
Because when you
consider the number
of people who die from cancer,
this amounts to genocide.
>> Wow.
Unbelievable information
from G. Edward Griffin
about the suppression of
Laetrile back in the 1950s
and how this information could
have saved people's lives.
He equates this to genocide.
Sounds like something that would
have happened in Soviet Russia,
but not in the good old USA.
>> So I would call this the
Sovietization of the United
States.
It's up to the central
Soviet to approve the doctor
to treat the patient.
And it up to local Soviet,
which is like to do the rest.
So they borrowed the
idea from Comrade Stalin
how to really restrict
freedom of the people.
And that's what they do
without any punishment.
Some brave doctors
are writing about it,
but this is one committee
after another committee.
And you can't go
against committee
because in the
committee, they say,
well, this is the
committee which really
decided what you should do.
OK.
So like in the
Communist country,
there is a committee who is
telling the engineers, well,
if you don't like the
design of your bridge,
do it a different way
because it does not conform
to Marxist-Leninist principles.
>> Even though they might
not have known anything about
a bridge.
>> Yeah.
>> They would be determining--
>> --doesn't conform to
Marxist-Leninist principles,
period.
That's what it is.
And that's the deal with
Texas Medical Board,
it does not conform
to our policy.
OK?
So forget it.
Patients may die and
you should not use it.
>> And I'm sure
patients have died.
>> Oh, many of them have died
>> Because of the
inability to access--
>> Many of them died, many
of them have deteriorated
because it took months to
really approve a single patient.
So this country obviously
has the finest regulations
in the world.
In the other countries,
it takes simply
a telephone call of the
doctor to a central agency
and notifying them, OK, look,
I have such and such patient.
I would like to treat
them with antineoplatons.
Can I do it?
Sure.
You can do it.
Do it.
OK.
That's it.
So that's what is
done, say in Japan,
in Australia, in
some other countries,
and in European Union countries.
They don't need even need
to ask the government
if this is a patient that does
not have any other ways to us
it.
They can use it.
In the United States, you
need to file tons of papers,
go through various
committees, ask the guys
in Washington for permission.
And then recently, we've we some
cases where permission came,
but the next day the child
died because it was too late.
Because brain tumors,
they don't wait.
OK?
>> They don't wait
for the clerks.
>> No.
They may, some of them, multiply
five times in one month.
So they are extremely deadly.
Which obviously is
part of medical science
which is away from the knowledge
of the clerks in Washington.
You see, the times are
changing very rapidly.
This is just two
weeks ago, there
was a second war with the
FDA which was finished.
They were trying to get rid
of us for a couple of years.
Initially, it started with
a smear campaign, which
is typical for Soviet Russia.
They typically use KGB to
start with some little reporter
with some unknown newspaper
to begin a smear campaign
and spread it to the largest
newspaper in the country.
And that's what's happened.
>> That's what they're
doing here now?
>> Yeah.
Well, it's spread to
"USA Today," whatever.
They hired a bunch of bloggers
to continuously smear us
everywhere.
It's nothing unusual.
It was practiced by communists,
it was practiced by Nazis.
That's normally what is done
by big totalitarian agencies.
>> Coming from a man who left
communist Poland to immigrate
to the United States,
those statements from Dr.
Brzezinski are quite telling.
Let's hear a little bit
about the history of one
of the most well-known clinics
in Mexico, the Oasis of Hope,
by the founder's son,
Dr. Francisco Contreras.
>> In the '60s, my father
was the director of one
of the biggest oncology
centers in Mexico City.
He was an army doctor.
And he went on a
tour or on vacation
and visited one of the hospitals
of the time of Hippocrates,
around 300 years before Christ.
They gave him a tour.
And the tour guide told them,
this hospital at that time
was divided into three areas.
And the patients would
come to the first area
and be evaluated physically,
the second area they would
be evaluated emotionally,
and the third area it was
more or less a spiritual thing.
There was a tunnel, and they
would go through the tunnel
and somebody outside
would be telling
the guy that was going
through the tunnel,
unbeknownst to them, you'll
be healed, you'll be healed.
And they thought
that it was the gods.
And after that experience,
my father said, well,
the reason why we're
failing in oncology
so much is that we've become
mechanics of the human body
and we're not paying attention
to the emotional and spiritual
needs of our patients.
So I'm going to go
back and change that.
He went back, told the staff
what they were going to do.
The next day, they
kicked him out.
>> Really?
>> Yes.
And that was the genesis
of the Oasis of Hope.
My father said, if the
system doesn't want to do it,
I'm going to do it.
And so he began his work
caring for the patients not
only physically, but
emotionally and spiritually.
He began singing with them,
giving them Bible studies,
laughter therapy.
And about three or four years
later, a lady from San Diego
went to Canada to do
a study with Laetrile,
a clinical trial with Laetrile.
She came back to San Diego.
And my father at that time
was the only pathologist
in Mexico and in San Diego.
So all of the oncologists
in San Diego knew him.
And when she came
back and she wanted
to continue with
Laetrile, nobody
wanted to give it to her.
So they one oncologists
say, well, I
know an oncologist in Mexico.
They're less stringent there.
Why don't you go and see him.
She came to my dad and
told him her problem.
My father said, well, I don't
know anything about this.
But she was just
riddled with cancer.
He says, I see no problem.
I'll give it to you.
So he started giving it to her.
Six months later,
she's still alive.
A year later, no tumor activity.
And so my father said, well,
there's something to this.
And this lady knew
everybody that
was going to Canada for the
trial, brought everybody
to my dad.
And just a few years
later, the Oasis of Hope,
there was a holistic
approach to cancer now also
had alternative therapies.
And so our aim has always been
to integrate whatever therapies
are available to us
from the conventional
and from the
alternative that we can
use to improve the quality
of life for our patients.
And we have been
very successful.
You can check our statistics on
our website, oasisofhope.com.
And our five-year survival
rates in the most common tumors
are between two and
five times better
than the national average in
the United States of America.
Laetrile has been our golden
therapy for the last 50 years.
It's a very innocuous
anti-tumor agent that
works for most common cancers.
Then for patients that do
not respond well to Laetrile,
we have high dose vitamin C
given in a very special way
that actually converts
the vitamin C virtually
into chemotherapy without
any of the side effects.
We have hyperthermia available,
we have all kinds of vaccines.
Another major part
of the therapy
is signaling
transduction with foods
to block the production
of enzymes and proteins
that are absolutely necessary
for the tumors to grow.
The combination
of all of this is
what we call the Contreras
metabolic therapy
or integritive therapy.
We also use a number of
immune stimulation agents,
not only the laughter therapy
and the emotional uplifting
music, all of the things
that we mentioned before.
But we have a product
from Japan that
has proved to be very
effective and there's
at least 70 publications, AHCC.
It has proven to
improve significantly
the quality and quantity
of the immune system.
So our therapeutic
approach really
has about 25 different
things that we'll
integrate depending
on the patient's needs
and on the patient's status.
>> I honestly don't know another
medical doctor that uses this
many different approaches
all in under one roof.
>> Right.
There's probably no other
clinic in North America that
houses the staff
and the equipment
and the array of
treatments that we have.
Because we're not just
interested in what's
available in the United States.
We reach outside of
the United States
and the world to find
all the treatments.
Like GcMAF is not even
made in the United States
so we get our GcMAF
from another country.
>> What do you mean,
what does that stand for?
>> GcMAF is a macrophage
activating factor.
Macrophages are the Pac
Men of your immune system.
And so when you have an
illness, and I'm not just
talking about cancer but
many chronic illnesses,
we make an enzyme
called nagalase.
And nagalase poisons
the macrophages,
inhibiting prohibiting
them doing their job.
And so that macrophage
activating factor
is a substance that you
can give internally,
either injection
form, inhalation form,
oral form from everything
from autism to cancer.
>> And the macrophages
you call them the Pac Men.
So what do they eat?
>> They eat the things that
your body doesn't like.
So for example, viruses
and bacteria and fungi
and chemicals and
toxins, everything
that is attacking the body
that is unable to do its job
and have a functioning
immune system.
>> I love that quote
by Dr. Connealy,
the macrophages are the Pac
Men of the immune system.
I mean, just picture
that in your head.
You can see the Pac Men chomping
down the bad guys almost
like a military invasion.
Speaking of military, one of
my favorite military movies
is a World War II movie, Steve
McQueen, "The Great Escape."
Remember when he died
in 1980 of mesothelioma
and do you remember the
story that you heard?
We're going to learn
the rest of the story
from Dr. Nicholas Gonzalez.
>> The Steve McQueen story
has never been properly told.
That's another big thing.
All kinds of biographies
about Steve McQueen
and mention Kelly, a guy.
I've talked to some
of these authors.
They never really
investigated it properly.
I know the whole story.
In fact, in this office about 25
feet from where we're sitting,
I have Steve McQueen's complete
medical records, even when
he used assumed names.
I've got all his records here.
I got them from Kelly.
So they're in this office.
I know the whole story.
I know it like nobody else
has because no one has ever
had his complete medical file.
McQueen was kind
of a reckless guy,
a motorcycle racer,
smoker drinker,
lived a little hard
life, as he's famous for.
He started getting
sick in 1978, 1979.
He went to his fancy
Los Angeles doctors
and they kind of blew it off--
you live too hard, you've
got to cut down smoking.
No one took him seriously.
Finally, he was so debilitated
he went to his doctors
and says, you've
got to do something.
Finally, the genius gets the
idea. let's do a chest x-ray.
He's got tumors in both lungs.
They work him up.
He's got metastic mesothelioma.
Mesothelioma is associated
with asbestos exposure.
Well, he was a
motorcycle fanatic.
And in those days, the
pipes in motorcycles
were lined with asbestos.
And he was a great mechanic and
worked on his own motorcycles.
So he was exposed to a
huge amount of asbestos
and ended up with mesothelioma.
In those days, 35
years ago and today,
mesothelioma is completely
uncurable once it spreads.
The only hope is to get
it early and do surgery.
Well, his brilliant
doctors had completely
missed the diagnosis for
years, so by the time
he was diagnosed,
it was metastatic.
Then the geniuses decided
to give immunotherapy.
Now, I'm trained as a classical
immunologist under Robert Good.
There's never been a study
in the history of the world
showing immunotherapy has
any effect on mesothelioma.
Talk about quackery.
They give it to him.
Didn't work.
So then they decided to give
him radiation-- or maybe
they gave him the
radiation first.
I'd have to pull up my notes.
There's never been a
study in the history
of the world showing radiation
works on mesothelioma.
Guess what, it didn't work.
So he ends up with
stage 4 advancing cancer
weeks from death goes to Kelly.
Kelly made one fatal mistake in
the treatment of Steve McQueen,
he took him on as a patient.
He was too advanced and
he was a reckless guy.
He was still smoking,
still drinking.
But he pleaded.
And Kelly was a very
compassionate guy, said,
I'll treat you.
But you're too weak.
You can't do this at home the
way most of my patients do it.
There was a hospital
in Mexico at the time
that was administering
parts of Kelly's therapy.
He says, go down to
that hospital in Mexico
and I'll kind of direct them.
And he did and he
wasn't 100% compliant.
He still had the Haagen-Dazs
ice cream kind of smuggled
in from his friends
and cigarettes.
But he did enough of it so
he started getting better.
And then one of the doctors in
Mexico gets the brilliant idea,
let's open him up because they
think they think the tumor--
he had a tumor in his abdomen,
as well as in his chest--
let's take it out, I
think it's a dead tumor.
They do the surgery.
The next day he dies of a
pulmonary embolus, which
is a blood clot in the lungs.
He did not die of mesothelioma.
In fact, the tumor
was a dead tumor.
Kelly used to have it in
his office in formaldehyde,
a dead tumor that had shrunk
down from a huge tumor
down to nothing.
It was dead.
He didn't die from-- the
way the media reports read,
which I have, it's
like Kelly took a gun
and shot McQueen, this
crazy quack doctor.
The true story has
never been told.
First, his brilliant
conventional doctors
missed the diagnosis for a year.
Then they give
him immunotherapy,
which is worthless.
Then they give him radiation,
When all that
fails, then he goes
to see Kelly, who keeps
him alive, kills the tumor,
and then gets blamed for
killing Steve McQueen.
So it's a bizarre story.
In none of the media reports
did they mention the fact
that the diagnosis
had been missed
and the conventional doctors had
done everything they could do.
And even today, 2014,
metastatic mesothelioma
is universally 100% incurable
by standard therapy.
Now, we have patients
doing beautifully with us.
So Kelly got blamed for that.
He was absolutely
devastated by that.
It really threw him off and
he never really recovered.
>> Wow.
What an amazing story that Dr.
Gonzalez just shared with us
about Steve McQueen.
If you remember, I'm a
big Steve McQueen fan.
One of the best war
movies I think ever
was "The Great Escape."
and Steve McQueen
is one of my heroes.
He died of mesothelioma, as
Dr. Gonzalez just shared.
The interesting thing
was, as you just
heard, that Dr. Kelly
actually didn't kill him.
He was known as the quack
that killed Steve McQueen.
But in reality, the
tumors were necrotic.
Dr. Kelly was actually
curing Steve McQueen
of his mesothelioma, which is
an incurable form of cancer,
by the way, according to
traditional oncologists.
And actually, the
surgery killed him.
It's interesting the
way that these things
are spun so that the
general public now
believes that Dr. Kelly,
who is now deceased,
murdered Steve McQueen when in
reality, he was healing him.
Wow.
What a powerful story.
Now, I want to make
it clear here, folks,
we're not telling you not to
go with traditional treatments.
We are not trying to
make a decision for you.
Our goal is to educate.
And the fact of the matter
is there are many options
to treat cancer.
And so we want you to
know that information
so that you can make an informed
decision if that diagnosis ever
comes.
That's our goal.
It's not to persuade you
one way or the other.
And while we're talking
about other options,
there are more
options that you still
haven't learned about, that
we have not shared with you.
And we're going to share with
you on tomorrow night's show.
So I know you learned
tonight about a lot
of natural treatments for
cancer and tomorrow night,
you're going to hear
about even more of them.
I know you're going to want to
join us again tomorrow night.
I look forward to
seeing you then.
>> My name is Dana.
I am 35 years old and I
began a journey with cancer
seven years ago, when I was 28.
I found out about this cancer
on Christmas Eve in 2006
and I had emergency surgery
on Christmas morning
to remove stage three colon
cancer that had not only
attached my colon,
but had ruptured
into my small intestine.
We began a chemo regimen of
six months chemo treatment
through the portacath where
I would have IV treatments
and I would have to go
home with a little IV bag.
So I was attached to chemo
for three days at a time.
This went on for six months,
and at the end of the six months
it was wonderful to have a
scan and hear the news that I
was cancer-free.
There's nothing like
hearing that you're
cancer-free after a
long cancer battle.
But of course, once you
begin a cancer battle,
you have to continue having
further testing to make sure
that you remain healthy.
So six months after
my testing and I
was told I was cancer-free,
I had another scan.
This time, the scan came back
that her cancer had returned
and had returned
in the lymph nodes
between my neck and
my lower abdomen
and it was spread
throughout my body.
Because the cancer had
returned and it was spread,
I was told I was stage 4.
So after two rounds
with colon cancer,
I was told that I was
once again cancer-free.
And we celebrated and thought
this time we'd really beat it,
this time it's done.
Later in that same
year, I have a PET
scan just to confirm
that the cancer was gone.
The PET scan came back clean.
There was no signs of cancer.
Within just three weeks, I
myself noticed on my neck
that I had some enlarged
lumps on my neck
that I found very strange.
So I told my doctor about it.
And they said, let's
do a PET scan just
to see what we
have going on here.
This time, the PET came
back very different
than the first one.
This time, it came
back showing that I
had between 10 to 15 tumors
all throughout my abdomen
and my neck, that the cancer was
back full force, stronger than
ever.
And this time, I was
told that I was terminal.
I decided that
all the approaches
we had taken before
obviously weren't working.
Something had to change.
I felt like we had been going
about my treatment the entirely
wrong way.
So as my family and I
were doing research,
we came across me
as for cancer cures.
We came across much information
that worked for some people,
the same thing didn't
work for other people.
We really didn't know
which way to turn.
We didn't know what to take,
we didn't know what to believe.
One thing we all do is
read the book "Cancer-Free"
of Bill Henderson, which
describes the battle that he
went through with his wife
during her cancer treatments.
And it also is a
very informal book
of how to find
supplements, how to find
other ways of treating your
cancer even in conjunction
treatment, with chemotherapy.
But before I started
chemo, I decided
to focus on one
supplement in the book
and order it to begin that
settlement before I even
began chemo treatments.
That supplement was
called Beat 1 3D Glucan.
I didn't have any idea if
this supplement was helping me
at all in the beginning.
There wasn't necessarily
a way to measure it.
What I did know is that I had
put off my chemo treatments
at the time.
I was still having
blood tests done
and the blood tests, the CEA
blood test count numbers,
were showing that
it was dropping even
without chemo treatments.
This was unexplained
by my oncologist.
Once I stopped the
IV chemo treatments
and I continued
taking Beta Glucan,
the numbers still
continued to drop,
even though I was
not on the chemo that
should remove cancer.
So we decided to do a PET scan
after just six weeks of the IV
chemo since I could
no longer tolerate it.
The scan came back showing
no signs of cancer.
This was remarkable.
It was truly amazing.
We had no idea how six
oncologists could tell me,
you will never be
cancer-free again;
you will not survive this.
To this day, they cannot explain
what happened to my cancer,
where it went, or
why it is still gone.
They have no idea why I am
cancer-free at this point.
The one consistent item
during all this time,
during the last four and a half
years of being cancer-free,
is my diet, which has been
changed to a very healthy diet.
It's related to, I
believe, my supplements
that I've been taking.
And I strongly believe it's
related to taking the Beta 1 3D
Glucan.
Whenever newly diagnosed
cancer patients talk to me
about their health
and what they can
do to change their health, even
in combination with their chemo
or radiation treatments,
even in combination
with their surgeries, I tell
them the number one item
that I suggest is
the Beta 1 3D Glucan.
I found locally.
It can be ordered out of the
Marietta, Georgia office.
It can also be online
at betterwayhealth.com.
I prefer to buy local and
it worked out great for me
in my case.
I tell them exactly
where to get it.
I tell them that it's worth it.
If you have a budget, if you
have only so many things you
can do, this is one thing that
I believe will work for you.
It certainly helped me.
The science couldn't explain
why my cancer was gone,
but we can take our
health into our own hands.